everybody my name is anton i'm working
at canonical as a product manager for
mass which is metal as a service
which enables really fast server
provisioning in an automated
programmatic way
so essentially providing um
an api and abstracting away a metal so
you can treat it just like a cloud and
build your own bare metal cloud
today we're actually going to set up a
virtual environment on a single machine
and we're going to create a whole bunch
of vms that represent bare metal servers
and we're going to get kubernetes
running on that
so in a single server you'll have
maz running lexi and we're going to use
juju and ceph together with kubernetes
so at the end you end up with a
functioning kubernetes cluster that you
can deploy applications to
so we don't always have a whole bunch of
bare metal lying around maybe we just
have a single spare machine and
providing that machine is powerful
enough you can actually do this entire
thing on that machine
so although it's not truly bare metal
kubernetes the concept is the same
and we're going to show how it can be
done while showcasing the different
command canonical products juju maz
lexdi and also using ceph and kubernetes
as i mentioned
you'll need a decent machine
with a recent version of ubuntu and
preferably the machine is freshly
installed so that there's nothing there
that might get in the way of doing this
tutorial the only kvm extensions working
32 gigs of ram and about 500 gigs of
free disk space and a good cpu four
cores or more will be ideal
there's a repository for this tutorial
it is at github
under anton geesley slash mass bare
metal kate's tutorial and we're going to
be working through that today
so what you'll end up with is
this gray box and inside the box we have
some attend bare metal machines metal
one two and three these are vns on using
lex d we'll have a lxd bridge which
allows us to have a virtual network in
essence so that we don't interfere with
your home network or your lab network
we'll have a juju controller we'll have
a network here 1010 10.0624
we'll have juju and mass there and using
linux tools we'll set up a source net
and routing so that we're able to access
the outside world from these virtual
machines
i was going to do this in two videos but
i've decided to do it in a single one so
what we're going to do is install xd and
configure it
configure networking and persist that
configuration install mass configure
mass and add lexi to mass or mask and
control xd and then we're going to
create some vms and legacy using mouse
and after that we'll use juju so we'll
set up juju
we'll add them as as a cloud to juju
and then we're going to deploy
kubernetes and ceph
let's get started
it's the first thing we need to do is
ssh onto our machine in my case it is
at this address
and we need to clone the repo to make
life easy for ourselves so that we don't
have to type everything out
so just grab the address there
and clone it like so
and so now we should have everything in
this
directory all the files that we need so
now if we have a look at messsetup.sh
we can get started so
we don't have to type all of these
things out we can just grab them and
paste them in
so if we grab lines two to six that will
install lexi latest version
because lexi normally ships with ubuntu
but we need to update it to the latest
version we're going to use jq later on
for parsing some output from some of our
commands
and of course the the mass
setup so
let's just paste that in
and we have already cloned the repo
so what we'll do when that's finished is
we need to get some information about
the network on your host
we need to know which interface is
the exit interface for your default
traffic
so just use a little bit of trickery
here some scripting to figure out which
interface that is
basically what we're going to do is look
at the default route
and check which interface it is and then
store those in some environment
variables
so let's grab those
i just finished installing
so we should just check those those
variables
like this
so it found the interface which is
enp6s0
and also
regret for that we have our ip address
and if we look at our ip address
indeed it is 200.15
and if we look at the router out we see
the default is
from that network and with that
interface so this is correct
we need to enable ipv forwarding because
we're going to be doing routing for our
virtual network
so that is now active
and this is the source mat
with iptables
so we're going to use those uh variables
that we got before
we can check
in that table
and there you see we have the rule for
sourcenet so
that's the networking finished
now to persist it
we just grabbed lines 20 to 21 to 22
sorry
we're going to use a package which
will persist everything for us
and ensure that every time the computer
starts it'll it'll have that in that
configuration present
okay that's done
so now we can initialize lex d
now
before that let's just take a peek
at the lexi configuration
the important things here are the
network that's the network we saw before
10.10.10.1 24.
and the bridge name lexi br0 the storage
500 here
and also the interface names
there's also a password specified here
this is not a production system and you
should change this if you are going to
do anything remotely near production but
for today it's fine that password we're
going to use later when we configure
mass
so
let's just initialize lxd
take a few seconds
and let's verify
the bridge is there and it is and we see
also that it has the ip address that we
expect so that ip address you will
actually see
if we do ipaddr here
you can see that that ip address is now
configured
on that bridge and it's lex d that has
made that happen
this command
just
waits until xd is ready which it is so
now we can initialize mads this is
telling mans where the database is which
is on the local host and also what the
url is from as
which is based off the ip address
that we figured out earlier
so that takes a little while while we're
waiting for it we can talk about the
next commands so in order to interact
with maz we need to have a credential
and we get the credential by running a
command with sudo
so it's a security thing first we create
a user called admin and then after that
we're going to get the credential for
that user
so we run it like this create admin
and now we can export the api key
before we do that we can
[Music]
don't worry my mouse server is not
publicly available and it will be
destroyed afterwards so
you can see here the api key is now
stored in our environment variable
and we can log in so
using the api key that we got and now
not running this as the super user you
can see we will be able to log in
because we have the credential
so you see we are now logged in at the
meta server
now we need to configure messa's
knowledge about networking we're going
to create a subnet and configure vlan
tags in primary rack now we're not
actually using any vlans it's just every
single network or subnet in mass has a
concept of vlan and fabric even though
they are just defaults and there are ids
associated with those so we should have
all of these now in environment
variables we should just quickly check
those
and you see here they all are
fabric id1 vlan tag zero and primary
rack id now this is actually
a machine identifier mass everything in
mass like this is modeled similar to
machines including
the rack controller and if you want to
learn more about what region and rack
controllers are you can read about that
on the mass website so now we have that
information and variables we can run
these commands to actually
do stuff and the first one we have here
on 42
is to set the default gateway for the
subnet so we know that the gateway is 10
or 10 to 10 or 1 that's the ip address
that is on the lxd bridge
so that has succeeded now we will do
some dhcp configuration and turn dhcp on
in line 44
and then line 45 we're setting a dns
server as well so we just run all of
those together
there we go
so we have networking now we have mass
installed and running now we can move on
to configuring and machines and licks
and
telling maz about our lex d
setup first thing we're going to do is
create a vm host in mass which is
referencing lex d so here you see the
password we mentioned earlier and we
also see the address which is this
machine
on port 8443
and the project is mass and at the same
time we're going to grab the id of that
vm host so maz models lex d as a vm host
so it needs an id as well and we can
actually check the id
and it is one because this is a fresh
machine if you if you had more then this
would increment
we're going to want to assign
all of our cpus to all of our machines
and to do that we need to have some over
subscription or over commit ratio so we
have eight real cores in this machine
16 hyperthreading with this we will now
have 64 and that means we can tell all
of our vms that they can have up to 8
cores that's just so that if one vm is
not very busy then the other ones can
always access all of the horsepower
available now we're going to create some
tags we're going to use tags with juju
later the way that they work is that we
can tell mass to assign tags of a
certain type to machines so when we
create a virtual machine later we might
want to say okay this one is for our
juju controller and the others are for
our bare metal machines
i will run those two commands
and
here you can see they both succeeded
right so we have a tag called metal and
we have a tag called juju controller at
the moment that doesn't do anything but
maz just has those tags now installed
and now we can create some
machines there will be virtual machines
and the first one we can do is it is the
juju controller so we run this command
here
grab the whole thing of 1661 and what
it's going to do is create the machine
with eight cores two gigs of memory
architecture amd64 and configure storage
with 16 gigs
and the host name will be juju
controller
that's not the tag that's the hostname
for this machine
so here you see the system id that
uniquely identifies this machine and now
the next set of commands is going to
grab the this system id
for us automatically so we don't have to
do any copy of pasting
store it in this environment variable
due to system id
and then we can run this command on 66
mass admin tag update nodes add the tag
juju controller to the machine with the
system id
and you'll see that that succeeded now
time to build our three bare metal
machines and also tag them with metal so
i've just made a little for loop here
it's going to compose three machines
with eight cores eight gigs of memory
amd64 again and storage is a little bit
different because one of them will be
for the os one device will be for ceph
so 25 gigs and 150
gigs and the host name will be metal one
two three we'll also grab the system id
as we do it and then we'll tag them with
the tag metal
so just grab that
now again the tags are going to be used
later when we use juju so when juju
works with mass as a metal cloud you can
specify constraints like i want this to
be deployed to machines with tag metal
or i want this to go to machines with
tag juju controller
juju can also tell maz to create more
machines but we're not doing that today
okay so
before we move on to the juju part let's
just have a look at our mouse
installation
you can go to your browser
and
go to
the ip address of your machine which i
just briefly forgot
dot 15
on port 5240
and you will have a fresh
login page here and the past username
and password is admin admin
so the first thing you'll see when you
log in is this you see the dns that we
configured
that's good so we can just continue you
see the images that is syncing you can
just continue again now i see mass has
been set up but there's one more thing
we want to do which is to put our ssh
key into mouse so you go back to your
terminal
and run ssh keychain
and just accept the defaults now if
you've already got a key called idea or
say just be careful you might want to
use a different name but i will use the
default
and if we grab now
dot pub like this
just grab that whole key
and copy it
and now go back to your browser
go to upload
paste in the key
import
and then finish setup this means that
maz knows the public key
that you gave it and is going to install
it on every machine that it sets up
meaning that you'll be able to ssh into
any of those machines
using your private key that you have
so if we go to admin and then ssh keys
you can see here the key is registered
let's also go to our kvm tab here
and this is where you can actually see
that
we have the vm host that we added before
and we can see the rand allocation we
can see the core allocation and the
storage which is a little bit
oversubscribed but
i don't think that's going to cause us
any problems today
so if you click on this
you'll see more detail and you'll
actually see the different machines that
we added in the cli it's still working
it's commissioning them
and when it's finished commissioning
them which means testing them and
gathering information about them and
storing it in this database
you can deploy them
you can also see it by clicking on
machines here
and you'll see that
these three are completed and it's
turning them off live while we're
watching because it's finished
commissioning them
we can watch this one metal three as it
does this
and it will turn off in a second
no it's finished that's good
okay so maz is all set up it's got our
ssh key in it
anything we do with these machines if we
deploy them
it will be accessible
by us now just another thing if you were
going to do something manually with them
you just click the machine like these
two select metal one and two and say
click take action deploy
and then you would be able to deploy
ubuntu to these two machines with just a
few clicks
i'm not going to do that now because
we're going to use juju for this
so let's install juju first so just uh
these two commands here
don't need to be in your home directory
to install juju of course but we're
going to need to be there for some of
the later commands
okay
we also need to do a little bit of
editing on our mass cloud configuration
so
let's uh
go back actually and take a look at that
so look at masscloud.yaml
it's a very basic configuration that we
can use for configuring juju
i've got a placeholder in here for the
ip address because you don't know what
it is
until you know what it is
so we know what it is now when it's in
our environment variable ip address
so we just use set to
that work we should go back one
and now you can paste this command
and let's just verify that that
works correctly
and now you can see our ip address has
been
put in there which is great
okay so the next command is uh add mass
as a cloud using the configuration file
that we just
fixed
so studio add cloud local
mass cloud and then the name of the
configuration file
okay so that's done but now we need some
credentials for this cloud we need that
api key that we were using before
because just like us juju needs to log
into the machine
so
you might recall that we had it in a
environment variable so you can actually
just do this
and
pipe it to grappling
search for api
copy this key
or
first we're going to
run this one add credential
okay and i'm going to call it mess creds
and just hit enter here
and now here's where you grab your key
again sorry i
grabbed it a little bit too early
just grab that paste it in it won't show
anything and be careful not to push
space before or after you paste it and
also don't grab any extra characters on
either side of your key
but paste it in here and push enter and
now you'll see that
it's been added the credentials so let's
take a look at juju cloud's local
and we can see our maz cloud as well as
it's recognized that we have lexi on the
local machine but we're not interested
in that right now
so mass cloud is there
and we can also run juju
credentials
and you'll see we have the mass credits
for the cloud maz cloud so juju is
basically set up to interact with mass
now the next thing we need to do is
bootstrap juju in the maz cloud so this
command 89 does that
it's going to try to install a
controller inside a machine in mass
except that i've added a constraint
using the tags that i mentioned before
with the juju controller tag and also
memory of only two gigabytes just to try
to save a bit of ram for
our other machines
so if you run that command it will start
doing its thing
and
interestingly enough we can go back to
you can go back to them as
your mouse browser
and you'll see that
due to the machine juju controller which
had a tag on it
is deploying now
so juju has caused it to start deploying
which is exactly what we wanted
and that was based off the constraints
that we gave it
so that'll take a little while
while we're waiting for it we can do
something else that we're going to need
to do so
juju has a dashboard but it only exposes
itself
locally on the controller so we
need to ssh to that
first let's uh just jump over to
our machine again
and if you run something like juju gui
it's not going to do anything because
the controller is not ready because
as it notes here is bootstrap still in
progress
but it's going to run on a local port on
that juju controller machine and in
order to get access to it
we will need to see it or we will see it
here as an ip address on this possum
machine which is our host
so
when we ssh to it we're going to
do some port forwarding so we can do
that with dash l
and then grab a local port that you know
is free like 8080 for example
and then
the ip address of the controller host
which
we can actually just quickly check here
is 10.10.10.2 so it's showing in mass
that the juju controller machine has
that ip address
and we will forward it to some port that
we know juju is running on or the juju
dashboard now
it's going to tell us
when it when it's finished
which takes a little while so we'll just
wait for that and i'll be back in a
in a minute
okay so we're back
to has done its thing and we have a
controller installed you can see here
the process went on for a little while
but now it's completed and the mass
cloud
default is now available
now we can take a look by going to
controllers
and youtube
models
and so you see that is there and just
recently
as well so that's great now if we run to
juju gui
now we see
the port
and so this is how you would try to
reach this now i'm not sitting directly
on the proud possum machine and that's
why i need to ssh to it and do some port
forwarding
so
i will remember this port 170 70
and i just put it here on the end
now if you're not familiar with ssh port
forwarding it's fairly simple it just
opens a socket on my local machine and
it will forward it over ssh and point it
at the remote or try to reach 10.10.10.2
through the tunnel that goes to
200.15
so if we run that like this
it worked it will also drop you into a
shell on that machine and now i should
be able to browse to my local host on
port 8080 so just type https localhost
8080 and hit enter
and it will throw a security risk
because it's a self-signed certificate
just click advanced if you're in firefox
accept the risk and continue
for some reason that is not working
because
i need to put slash dashboard so don't
forget slash dashboard like that
okay
so it's
admin
and then grab the password that juju
gave you when you ran juju gui
and paste that
and log in
so now you can see in a little overview
of what's happening in juju and if you
click on the default controller
you see there's nothing there right now
so
that's to be expected because we haven't
tried to deploy anything
so what happens
now is that
we need to
tell juju that it wants or needs some
machines
so if you run juju machines
you'll see that there's actually nothing
there
but we know that we have the three metal
machines and the controller in mouse so
if we would run
juju add machine three times
we will end up with juju
claiming three machines from mass so
here i just run it once and it's created
machine 0
and if i run juju machines again
you can see
it's starting to work with that machine
and if we go back to mass
you can see that that machine is now
being deployed
and if i do it
again
it will grab another one
which add machine we should see a live
update on the right hand window
there we go
so it has started on the second one and
if i run it again
it'll
add another one it'll claim the other
one now if you keep running this you'll
end up with it
trying to use lexd to create more until
you run out of resources so i'm not
going to do that i only want to have
these
three machines
and we can see them here each one has an
id
and these ids increment
with each machine that you add
you they don't go backwards so if you
delete these machines and then create
new ones
they will have different ids
just something to keep in mind
now
let's move on to actually
deploying something we'll just have to
wait for a little while this again
we need to wait until those machines are
ready so we'll be back in a minute
hey welcome back so let's see if these
machines are finished deploying it
and yes they are so that's great and
you'll see that there are now all
on in mass and they're all deployed with
ubuntu
2004 which is great
so now that they are done we can
actually deploy something to them so
first thing is ceph we need some storage
to give to our kubernetes cluster i know
there are easier ways to do this but i
wanted to show you this because this is
quite neat but to try to play with ceph
in a basic way but also how how to
install things so
this is deploying ceph to a bare metal
cloud so assuming that you have already
had mass set up and you had a whole
bunch of machines
then to deploy something like this is as
simple as these commands so on 114 line
114 with juju deploy cephmon
three instances
and here is a clever command which says
because i wanted to conserve memory
space
i thought that ceph monitoring can
actually be deployed as containers so
lexi also supports containers
so here it's actually going to use lexi
on machine 0 1 and 2. and those are the
machine identifier 0 1 2
right so
let's grab those
and deploy cephmon
okay so it fetches a charm from charmhub
and then starts to deploy it so it's
just like magic
and if we run gtg status
you will see some magical things like
the ceph units and you can read about
juju in more detail on the juju homepage
but also importantly status you see it
says waiting scale 0 of 3
versions and so forth
it also says it's waiting for machine
and the reason is because if you look
down here on machine 0 1 and 2
it's actually working with lex d right
now to create those machines that it
needs and
here you can see
it's in progress
right
you can also go to
now back to your juju
ui that we had open before and you can
see the application we deployed the
surfmon is here and status waiting
and you can click on that and you can
see a bit more detail so similar to the
status command that we were using before
so it's still allocating the machines
okay so the containers are started
and pretty soon this should flip over
and
it will be
kind of happy it won't be really fully
happy because ceph is this is only
saffmon it's not everything that is
needed what we can do while we're
waiting is we can also
deploy ceph osd
to the actual lexi bare metal machines
that we have created before so you
notice that this is a little bit
different than the first command
theoretical xd which was specifying do
this in a container
whereas this is specifying do this
directly on the machine so we can run
that in parallel and the machine will
get quite busy now so you can see it's
doing a lot of things you can see here
cephmon and we can see sev osd and
they're in status maintenance right now
that's because
they're still installing
and if you like you can just
run a command
like one line 121 but first
let's relate these so
surf monitor needs to monitor something
so with this simple command in juju we
relate these two uh deployments together
so
you can see in
status
that if we didn't do that relationship
then after a while they would both
complain that they are missing something
because they won't work unless they have
this relationship in place
now you can use this watch c juju status
dash dash color to watch this in in real
time it can be quite interesting to just
to see what's happening it changes
constantly as different pieces are being
deployed and let's just wait for a bit
and i'll be back in a sec
we're back
and here we can see that it's finished
which is great the status is active for
both chef mon and osd and by the way if
you don't know what ceph is um you can
read up on it and we also have a lot of
documentation about it at canonical so
everything is looking just fantastic
right now so you can control c to get
out of this watch command
and now we're going to deploy kubernetes
so we do that simply with juju deploy
kubernetes core we're not going to use
charmed kubernetes today
this is like a smaller deployment type
of kubernetes with just one worker and
master and we're going to say that we
want it mapped to the machines zero and
one
so grab that
and
run this
now there are a lot of components
for kubernetes so it's going to be and
that again is going to be a little bit
overweight
a lot of people call this settling wait
for it to settle so the deployment here
is completed but
juju and machines are going to be busy
for a while so if you run the watch
command again
you'll see all the new things for
kubernetes
and you can see that it's installing
and
let's just make this bigger for a minute
okay so
installing charm software
agent initializing here's our kubernetes
master kubernetes worker
flannel for networking atcd easy rsa and
container d
and
they will take
quite some time depending on how
powerful your machine is
in the case of easy rsa is actually
using a container you see that because
it says zero slash lex d slash one
the other ones are all going directly to
machines
and since we specified machine 0 and 1
you'll see that the kubernetes master
and all of its friends are on
machine 0 and the kubernetes worker is
on machine 1.
and it's normal to see these statuses
changing over time because these are
internal things that need to be set up
before the kubernetes deployment is said
to be deployed so as things are
installing and changing then there will
be different statuses and different
things that are broken and this is what
the settling process is all about
again it's it's quite interesting to
watch this
you might like to have a coffee while
you do it
let's just uh leave it going and i'll be
back in a minute all right back again
and we can see here that our kubernetes
cluster has finished
settling which is neat so we have all
the different components now we have
ceph here
and we have kubernetes and it's it's
individual bits and pieces
all happy and working and ready
so we can push ctrl c here and can also
be interesting just to run top
let's have a look at how busy our
machine is running all of these bare
metal machines now we can see that it is
fairly busy actually
doing something not entirely sure but
it's still usable which is a good thing
so this machine i should mention has
eight cores
and uh 32 gigs of ram and it is a amd
ryzen 1700 okay so let's now move on to
using our kubernetes cluster so one
thing we can do is actually
grab some credentials for our cluster so
just create a directory here and then
run this command juju scp
which is going to copy the
kubernetes config
for us and if this doesn't work then
just try with
monster zero like so
okay so now in
here you should see a config file
and if we
cut that out we'll see a certificate
again this is not a production system so
it's okay
i will be blowing this away when i
finish the tutorial
but we can see a cluster which is great
so now let's
relate
our new cluster
with ceph so this is essentially telling
the two about each other
and this is how kubernetes will gain
access to storage
so after you've run these two relation
commands
you can run digital status again and
let's just
blow that up a little bit
you can see that there's some activity
here
and this is most likely
the actions that are being taken behind
the scenes to connect them together
and if you like you can run your watch
command again
just push ctrl r and start typing watch
and get it back like that
and we can sit here and check this until
it's finished and i'll be back when it's
done
so our kubernetes cluster should be
settled by now and we can see that just
run digi status again and you'll see
whether everything is active and idle
so it's time to register our kubernetes
cluster with
juju so
run juju add case my case
in my case i need to use update kits
that's because i have previously
been through this process but for you it
is add kids and then juju bootstrap
my case like so
and this will take a minute so we'll be
back in just a second
so now that we've bootstrapped our
controller all we need to do is start
deploying stuff okay so
first uh juju admob
hello coupon and how that works is it
basically creates a namespace inside
kubernetes
and we can just quickly take a look at
that so kubernetes get name
spaces
and there you'll see there's a hello
coupon namespace that's been set up and
we can deploy
hello kubcon just like this and don't
worry about the configuration thing it's
a there's a bug in that charm so we'll
just ignore it
the host name is going to end up being
hello coupon for us
for our ingress
and now we can deploy an ingress nginx
ingress integrator this is a charm that
sits in the cluster and basically will
set up ingresses for us when we relate
applications to
to it but in order to do so it needs to
have credentials
so we run juju trust
which gives it the credentials for the
kubernetes cluster and now when we run
this due to relate
it's going to set up the ingress now if
i first get ingress
on the namespace
hello
kubcon like so
uh there are no ingresses
but the moment i run this relate command
you'll see
soon that there is one let's check judo
status
and you can see that it's executing so
eventually there will be a
an ingress in place and there you can
see it
so that's pretty neat
setting up ingresses is not trivial if
we describe the ingress you'll see what
it looks like
if you do this you'll normally use tools
like home or do it by hand or something
similar it's not usually so easy it's
quite error prone so this is very nice
that juju did this for us
and here we can see the host name and we
can see the back ends in this case is
the service this kubernetes service
and if we describe that service
we're going to see
that it's a cluster ip that's the ip on
it and then it's going to the target
port 8080 and the end points are here
which is where the actual containers are
running and if we get the pods for hello
coupon
like so
then you can see
hello kucon zero is is sitting right
there
it won't work right now from my desktop
machine or yours because we need to do
some port forwarding so there's this
iptables rule in the nat in the
pre-routing that is going to grab any
traffic that comes in on the host
interface and redirect it to destination
port 8000 to the machine the node where
everything is where the ingress is
located
so just
run that
and then verify that it's there iptables
dash t nat
nl
and there you have it so now we should
be able to access it from outside we
should also check that the ingress is
actually running on 10.10.10.5
which is a very important part of it
and
we'll do that in a sec so the way to
verify where the ingress is are is to
run this command couple get ingress
and you'll see here that actually
there's two this is because of of some
work that i did previously but if you're
running this from scratch you should see
only one ip address here and in that
case you see it is 10.10.10.5
so at this point we should be able to
access that ingress from outside
so
first a good way to test that is with
telnet so we can turn it to the ip
address of my host machine
on port 8000
and you see we have a response
and then if you edit your host file
you just need to
specify the ip address of your host
and add hello kubcon here
as the hostname
right so if i now do
nslookup on that i'll get something like
this with the ip address
and now i should be able to go to my
browser go to hello coupon on port 8000
and you have a working application so
this means that everything is is working
end-to-end the ip tables is working
kubernetes is up the hello kitchen is
deployed there's a working ingress
let's take a look at the next steps
there's some extra extra bonus material
that i thought we could do which is
pretty cool i wanted to show you how to
scale up and down in your cluster as
well as your application
so first let's switch ourselves back to
the mass cloud
and run our status just to take a look
okay so we've got a kubernetes worker
here
zero and a kubernetes master zero
and they're on machine zero and one but
what about machine two
machine two could actually host another
worker i think for kubernetes so the way
that we do that is we run juju ad unit
kubernetes worker dash dash 2 2
and that's going to set up
another worker
that is going to join the cluster and
you see in this case it will call it
kubernetes worker number three that's
because i've previously been adding and
removing them while testing this
and we can also see the ip address which
is 10.10.10.4
and you remember that we saw that in the
ingress
like so
this is set up automatically for us when
you add that new worker
and when we add the hello coupon when we
add another um when we tell it that we
want to have more than one
and it spreads itself across the nodes
in the cluster it's automatically
changing the ingress
or making sure that there are multiple
addresses representing the metal
machines because that's where the
traffic has to come in so that's very
neat
right so it would have taken a little
while to add the new worker
so let's just quickly go down and check
that i know where i am
make sure you run 2g status and just
check that it successfully added the new
worker
now we can see it here
kubernetes worker 3 is now active
and idle and is on machine too which is
really good
so now let's add now that we have a new
kubernetes worker
let's switch to our kubernetes cluster
and then let's add a unit so it says
juju add unit
n1 that's how many you want to add of
hello coupon
right so we run that and then run juju
status you will see that now there's the
current state and the desired state in
terms of the number of these that we
want of these units
it will take a little while
but not too long because it's a
container
and you see that the ingress was busy
there for a second and that's because
it's just checking that there's an
ingress that the ingress is set up and
available on every node that this
application is running on
what this means is
this is very important about this on
that you can hit either of the nodes
and you will be able to reach the
destination
so we can play with it actually so
if we go back and grab our ip tables
rule
and add a new one
but point it at
10.10.10.4 in my case
and i'll add a new port here 8001
and add that
and then just verify it to iptables
now tnl
got two rules so i can hit
either 8000 8001 and it's going to send
me to
either the new kubernetes node worker
which was 10.10.10.4
okay
i hope i'm not losing you here but let's
like edit the hosts
it's still
192.168.200.16 which is fine so you
don't actually have to edit that what we
do is we go to a different port
so
we grab that and then paste it here and
it is 8001
like that and this will go to a
different server
and they both will work even though
we're sending it to two different nodes
right
so 8000 represents
one of the kubernetes workers and 8001
represents the other one so it's very
neat now we have a very resilient setup
okay so if you wanted to know how to do
load balancing then i'm going to leave
that up to you you can google for
iptables around robin so instead of
these two different rules that i've got
you know it's not really that useful
what you'd rather have is just
that it will automatically send it to
either one of those nodes you can check
out metal lb
which is part of the kubernetes projects
i believe or you can do something simple
like a very simple ip tables
round robin
port forwarding
okay so now let's scale down
we're going to do everything in reverse
so first we're going to remove
the unit
i'm on the wrong machine
and then if you run judo status you will
see that now
there's two but we want one so it will
take a little while
and eventually
one of these will disappear
okay so mine has disappeared and
hopefully yours too so now i only have
one
and now we want to remove that
kubernetes worker that we added
so we switch back to
the mass cloud and then
unlike kubernetes
in this case we just remove the unit by
name
and this won't work
because
there is no kubernetes worker
called
number one
but there is one called number three
just delete that one and then
you will have to wait for the cluster to
do the work and or resettle now it might
seem trivial but it's not it's really
really cool that juju
is able to do this to simply add and
remove kubernetes workers
with very simple commands or via api for
that matter
and together with mass to be able to
reserve bare metal machines behind the
scenes now in this case i've been
forcing everything onto three
fake bare metal machines
but in a real setup this would work just
fine if you had all of the real metal
machines
actually deployed and managed by mass
now you could wait for that to settle
but it doesn't prevent you from actually
moving on uh and and cleaning up so if
you want to clean up we'll just show you
a couple of quick commands
so
let's check which controller we're on
okay i need to switch to
my case here and then let's say i i
just want to
delete the model
so i want to remove my application so
that's quite simple just destroy model
hello kubecon released and released
storage and that's going to get rid of
the model it'll take a little while if
you push control c at this point in time
it'll just let you out of the juju cli
but you'll notice that it says the
destroy model is still running in the
background so that's great because you
can jump back to your cli like that
then if you decide you know what i
really don't want the controller either
for for kubernetes in the cluster
then you can run juju destroy controller
and then
the name
and it says it's gonna include all
machines applications data other
resources
so let's say yes
and it's going to be waiting probably
for the model of the hello coupon which
was still cleaning up
in addition if you want to clean up the
kubernetes cluster itself i haven't got
the commands here but um i'll just tell
you
you change back to the mass controller
and then you basically destroy all of
the applications that you deployed for
kubernetes and that will clean up
everything they're running on the bare
metal and if you want to go even further
than that then what you do is you go
into mass
and you just find the machines you can
just completely blow them away with a
few clicks which is quite nice and if
you also want to clean up all the
networking configuration that we've done
then just go back and
use ip tables to remove the rules and
then run that package installation thing
again
the package installation that persists
the ip tables so that way it will clean
everything up hopefully you've done this
on a fresh machine anyway
so you don't have too much cleanup to do
or a separate machine at least and here
you see that we have no
selected controllers because i destroyed
the kubernetes controller
so if i switch to mass cloud
switch as cloud default like this
and then choose your status you'll see
we've still got all of our cluster
like and ceph and everything running
there and if you want to destroy these
then
you can actually delete the application
so you run
something like
did you
remove application and then
start removing these
okay so let's recap
we have gone through a lot in this video
but i hope that you've managed to
understand everything i hope it also
hasn't been a bit too slow for you but i
want to be sure that it's easy to
understand
we've learned how to use juju we've
learned about kubernetes we've learned
about mass we've learned about lex d and
we've successfully built an entire setup
on top of a single machine i hope you've
had as much fun watching this as i had
making this video this was my journey to
learn about maz and juju etc and i've
certainly had tons of fun i hope that
you will use this or put this to good
use i'd also love feedback you can
contact me at anton.smith canonical.com
or you can add me on linkedin which
would be fantastic
so with that uh good luck with your
adventures and i hope you continue
playing with these fantastic tools